ICML2018
https://icml.cc/
Thirty-fifth International Conference on Machine Learning

All Orals download: https://icml.cc/Conferences/2018/Schedule?type=Oral

Papers Topic: Deep Learning

[Han Bao] Classification from Pairwise Similarity and Unlabeled Data

Supervised learning needs a huge amount of labeled data, which can be a big bottleneck under the situation where there is a privacy concern or labeling cost is high. To overcome this problem, we propose a new weakly-supervised learning setting where only similar (S) data pairs (two examples belong to the same class) and unlabeled (U) data points are needed instead of fully labeled data, which is called SU classification. We show that an unbiased estimator of the classification risk can be obtained only from SU data, and the estimation error of its empirical risk minimizer achieves the optimal parametric convergence rate. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method through experiments.
	
[Lukas Ruff] Deep One-Class Classification

Despite the great advances made by deep learning in many machine learning problems, there is a relative dearth of deep learning approaches for anomaly detection. Those approaches which do exist involve networks trained to perform a task other than anomaly detection, namely generative models or compression, which are in turn adapted for use in anomaly detection; they are not trained on an anomaly detection based objective. In this paper we introduce a new anomaly detection method---Deep Support Vector Data Description---, which is trained on an anomaly detection based objective. The adaptation to the deep regime necessitates that our neural network and training procedure satisfy certain properties, which we demonstrate theoretically. We show the effectiveness of our method on MNIST and CIFAR-10 image benchmark datasets as well as on the detection of adversarial examples of GTSRB stop signs.
	
[Octavian-Eugen Ganea] Hyperbolic Entailment Cones for Learning Hierarchical Embeddings

Learning graph representations via low-dimensional embeddings that preserve relevant network properties is an important class of problems in machine learning. We here present a novel method to embed directed acyclic graphs. Following prior work, we first advocate for using hyperbolic spaces which provably model tree-like structures better than Euclidean geometry. Second, we view hierarchical relations as partial orders defined using a family of nested geodesically convex cones. We prove that these entailment cones admit an optimal shape with a closed form expression both in the Euclidean and hyperbolic spaces, and they canonically define the embedding learning process. Experiments show significant improvements of our method over strong recent baselines both in terms of representational capacity and generalization.
	
[Thomas Miconi] Differentiable plasticity: training plastic neural networks with backpropagation

How can we build agents that keep learning from experience, quickly and efficiently, after their initial training? Here we take inspiration from the main mechanism of learning in biological brains: synaptic plasticity, carefully tuned by evolution to produce efficient lifelong learning. We show that plasticity, just like connection weights, can be optimized by gradient descent in large (millions of parameters) recurrent networks with Hebbian plastic connections. First, recurrent plastic networks with more than two million parameters can be trained to memorize and reconstruct sets of novel, high-dimensional (1000+ pixels) natural images not seen during training. Crucially, traditional non-plastic recurrent networks fail to solve this task. Furthermore, trained plastic networks can also solve generic meta-learning tasks such as the Omniglot task, with competitive results and little parameter overhead. Finally, in reinforcement learning settings, plastic networks outperform non-plastic equivalent in a maze exploration task. We conclude that differentiable plasticity may provide a powerful novel approach to the learning-to-learn problem.

[Yichong Xu] Nonparametric Regression with Comparisons: Escaping the Curse of Dimensionality with Ordinal Information

In supervised learning, we leverage a labeled dataset to design methodsfor function estimation.In many practical situations, we are able to obtainalternative feedback, possibly at a low cost. A broad goal is to understand the usefulnessof, and to design algorithms to exploit, this alternative feedback.We focus on a semi-supervised setting where we obtain additional ordinal (or comparison) information for potentially unlabeled samples. We considerordinal feedback of varying qualities where we have either a perfect ordering of the samples, a noisy ordering of the samples or noisy pairwise comparisons between the samples.We provide a precise quantification of the usefulness of these types of ordinal feedback in non-parametric regression, showing that in many cases it is possible to accurately estimate an underlying function with a very small labeled set, effectively escaping the curse of dimensionality.We develop an algorithm called Ranking-Regression (RR) and analyze its accuracy as a function of size of the labeled and unlabeled datasetsand various noise parameters.We also present lower bounds, that establish fundamental limits for the task and show that RR is optimal in a variety of settings. Finally, we present experiments that show the efficacy of RR and investigate its robustness to various sources of noise and model-misspecification.
	
[Yunbo Wang] PredRNN++: Towards A Resolution of the Deep-in-Time Dilemma in Spatiotemporal Predictive Learning

We present PredRNN++, a recurrent network for spatiotemporal predictive learning. In pursuit of a great modeling capability for short-term video dynamics, we make our network deeper in time by leveraging a new recurrent structure named Causal LSTM with cascaded dual memories. To alleviate the gradient propagation difficulties in deep predictive models, we propose a Gradient Highway Unit, which provides alternative quick routes for the gradient flows from outputs back to long-range previous inputs. The gradient highway units work seamlessly with the causal LSTMs, enabling our model to capture the short-term and the long-term video dependencies adaptively. Our model achieves state-of-the-art prediction results on both synthetic and real video datasets, showing its power in modeling entangled motions.

[Zachary Charles] Stability and Generalization of Learning Algorithms that Converge to Global Optima

We establish novel generalization bounds for learning algorithms that converge to global minima. We derive black-box stability results that only depend on the convergence of a learning algorithm and the geometry around the minimizers of the empirical risk function. The results are shown for non-convex loss functions satisfying the Polyak-Lojasiewicz (PL) and the quadratic growth (QG) conditions, which we show arise for 1-layer neural networks with leaky ReLU activations and deep neural networks with linear activations. We use our results to establish the stability of first-order methods such as stochastic gradient descent (SGD), gradient descent (GD), randomized coordinate descent (RCD), and the stochastic variance reduced gradient method (SVRG), in both the PL and the strongly convex setting. Our results match or improve state-of-the-art generalization bounds and can easily extend to similar optimization algorithms. Finally, although our results imply comparable stability for SGD and GD in the PL setting, we show that there exist simple quadratic models with multiple local minima where SGD is stable but GD is not.


Papers Topic: Natural Language and Speech Processing

[Ben Krause] Dynamic Evaluation of Neural Sequence Models

We explore dynamic evaluation, where sequence models are adapted to the recent sequence history using gradient descent, assigning higher probabilities to re-occurring sequential patterns. We develop a dynamic evaluation approach that outperforms existing adaptation approaches in our comparisons. We apply dynamic evaluation to outperform all previous word-level perplexities on the Penn Treebank and WikiText-2 datasets (achieving 51.1 and 44.3 respectively) and all previous character-level cross-entropies on the text8 and Hutter Prize datasets (achieving 1.19 bits/char and 1.08 bits/char respectively).

[Cijo Jose] Kronecker Recurrent Units

Our work addresses two important issues with recurrent neural networks: (1) they are over-parametrized, and (2) the recurrent weight matrix is ill-conditioned. The former increases the sample complexity of learning and the training time. The latter causes the vanishing and exploding gradient problem.We present a flexible recurrent neural network model called Kronecker Recurrent Units (KRU). KRU achieves parameter efficiency in RNNs through a Kronecker factored recurrent matrix. It overcomes the ill-conditioning of the recurrent matrix by enforcing soft unitary constraints on the factors. Thanks to the small dimensionality of the factors, maintaining these constraints is computationally efficient.Our experimental results on seven standard data-sets reveal that KRU can reduce the number of parameters by three orders of magnitude in the recurrent weight matrix compared to the existing recurrent models, without trading the statistical performance.These results in particular show that while there are advantages in having a high dimensional recurrent space, the capacity of the recurrent part of the model can be dramatically reduced.

[Denis Yarats] Hierarchical Text Generation and Planning for Strategic Dialogue

End-to-end models for goal-orientated dialogue are challenging to train, because linguistic and strategic aspects are entangled in latent state vectors. We introduce an approach to learning representations of messages in dialogues by maximizing the likelihood of subsequent sentences and actions, which decouples the semantics of the dialogue utterance from its linguistic realization.We then use these latent sentence representations for hierarchical language generation, planning and reinforcement learning. Experiments show that our approach increases the end-task reward achieved by the model, improves the effectiveness of long-term planning using rollouts, and allows self-play reinforcement learning to improve decision making without diverging from human language. Our hierarchical latent-variable model outperforms previous work both linguistically and strategically.
	
[Joan Serra] Overcoming Catastrophic Forgetting with Hard Attention to the Task

Catastrophic forgetting occurs when a neural network loses the information learned in a previous task after training on subsequent tasks. This problem remains a hurdle for artificial intelligence systems with sequential learning capabilities. In this paper, we propose a task-based hard attention mechanism that preserves previous tasks' information without affecting the current task's learning. A hard attention mask is learned concurrently to every task, through stochastic gradient descent, and previous masks are exploited to condition such learning. We show that the proposed mechanism is effective for reducing catastrophic forgetting, cutting current rates by 45 to 80%. We also show that it is robust to different hyperparameter choices, and that it offers a number of monitoring capabilities. The approach features the possibility to control both the stability and compactness of the learned knowledge, which we believe makes it also attractive for online learning or network compression applications.
	
[Jonatas Wehrmann] Hierarchical Multi-Label Classification Networks

One of the most challenging machine learning problems is a particular case of data classification in which classes are hierarchically structured and objects can be assigned to multiple paths of the class hierarchy at the same time. This task is known as hierarchical multi-label classification (HMC), with applications in text classification, image annotation, and in bioinformatics problems such as protein function prediction. In this paper, we propose novel neural network architectures for HMC called HMCN, capable of simultaneously optimizing local and global loss functions for discovering local hierarchical class-relationships and global information from the entire class hierarchy while penalizing hierarchical violations. We evaluate its performance in 21 datasets from four distinct domains, and we compare it against the current HMC state-of-the-art approaches. Results show that HMCN substantially outperforms all baselines with statistical significance, arising as the novel state-of-the-art for HMC.
	
[Kevin Tian] CoVeR: Learning Covariate-Specific Vector Representations with Tensor Decompositions

Word embedding is a useful approach to capture co-occurrence structures in large text corpora. However, in addition to the text data itself, we often have additional covariates associated with individual corpus documents---e.g. the demographic of the author, time and venue of publication---and we would like the embedding to naturally capture this information. We propose CoVeR, a new tensor decomposition model for vector embeddings with covariates. CoVeR jointly learns a \emph{base} embedding for all the words as well as a weighted diagonal matrix to model how each covariate affects the base embedding. To obtain author or venue-specific embedding, for example, we can then simply multiply the base embedding by the associated transformation matrix. The main advantages of our approach are data efficiency and interpretability of the covariate transformation. Our experiments demonstrate that our joint model learns substantially better covariate-specific embeddings compared to the standard approach of learning a separate embedding for each covariate using only the relevant subset of data, as well as other related methods. Furthermore, CoVeR encourages the embeddings to be topic-aligned'' in that the dimensions have specific independent meanings. This allows our covariate-specific embeddings to be compared by topic, enabling downstream differential analysis. We empirically evaluate the benefits of our algorithm on datasets, and demonstrate how it can be used to address many natural questions about covariate effects.
	
[Lukasz Kaiser] Fast Decoding in Sequence Models Using Discrete Latent Variables

Autoregressive sequence models based on deep neural networks, such as RNNs, Wavenet and Transformer are the state-of-the-art on many tasks. However, they lack parallelism and are thus slow for long sequences. RNNs lack parallelism both during training and decoding, while architectures like WaveNet and Transformer are much more parallel during training, but still lack parallelism during decoding.We present a method to extend sequence models using discrete latent variables that makes decoding much more parallel. The main idea behind this approach is to first autoencode the target sequence into a shorter discrete latent sequence, which is generated autoregressively, and finally decode the full sequence from this shorter latent sequence in a parallel manner. To this end, we introduce a new method for constructing discrete latent variables and compare it with previously introduced methods. Finally, we verify that our model works on the task of neural machine translation, where our models are an order of magnitude faster than comparable autoregressive models and, while lower in BLEU than purely autoregressive models, better than previously proposed non-autogregressive translation.
	
[Nan Rosemary Ke] Focused Hierarchical RNNs for Conditional Sequence Processing

Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) with attention mechanisms have obtained state-of-the-art results for many sequence processing tasks. Most of these models use a simple form of encoder with attention that looks over the entire sequence and assigns a weight to each token independently.We present a mechanism for focusing RNN encoders for sequence modelling tasks which allows them to attend to key parts of the input as needed. We formulate this using a multi-layer conditional %hierarchical sequence encoder that reads in one token at a time and makes a discrete decision on whether the token is relevant to the context or question being asked. The discrete gating mechanism takes in the context embedding and the current hidden state as inputs and controls information flow into the layer above. We train it using policy gradient methods. We evaluate this method on several types of tasks with different attributes. First, we evaluate the method on synthetic tasks which allow us to evaluate the model for its generalization ability and probe the behavior of the gates in more controlled settings. We then evaluate this approach on large scale Question Answering tasks including the challenging MS MARCO and SearchQA tasks. Our models shows consistent improvements for both tasks over prior work and our baselines. It has also shown to generalize significantly better on synthetic tasks as compared to the baselines.
	
[Trieu H. Trinh] Learning Longer-term Dependencies in RNNs with Auxiliary Losses

Despite recent advances in training recurrent neural networks (RNNs), capturing long-term dependencies in sequences remains a fundamental challenge. Most approaches use backpropagation through time (BPTT), which is difficult to scale to very long sequences. This paper proposes a simple method that improves the ability to capture long term dependencies in RNNs by adding an unsupervised auxiliary loss to the original objective. This auxiliary loss forces RNNs to either reconstruct previous events or predict next events in a sequence, making truncated backpropagation feasible for long sequences and also improving full BPTT. We evaluate our method on a variety of settings, including pixel-by-pixel image classification with sequence lengths up to 16000, and a real document classification benchmark. Our results highlight good performance and resource efficiency of this approach over competitive baselines, including other recurrent models and a comparable sized Transformer. Further analyses reveal beneficial effects of the auxiliary loss on optimization and regularization, as well as extreme cases where there is little to no backpropagation.
	
